we're in Kenya's Masai Mara over a
thousand square miles of rolling
grasslands
with the wildebeest migration in town
its hyena heaven
this is what hyenas call home the den
a crush for nursing mothers and a
playground for the young
the Cubs are born with their eyes open
and sharp teeth
from their first moments they fight to
establish their rank a rank they'll keep
for the rest of their lives
females are stronger they always win
when adults they dominate life in their
group the clan late in the afternoon
more females return from daytime resting
places
males need permission to come to the den
arriving animals greet clan mates they
all know each other intimately but for
us it's hard to tell the sexes apart
male and female genitals look just the
same the clan tag grass stalks with
special glands in their anus two hyenas
scent talks at the center of Clan life
is a testosterone fueled matriarch she's
the boss
her children and grandchildren get the
best deal